# DotCL C# Assembly Packages

This document describes the method by which a C# assembly
is converted to a Lisp package for use by DotCL programs.

The C# assembly information is retrieved from a Lisp
S-expression metadata file generated by the
`AssemblyToLispy.cs` class and documented in the
`assembly-to-lispy.md` file.

The high level inputs are:
* One or more assembly metadata files
* A list of classes (or all)
* An output directory

The high level outputs are:
* A DotCL Common Lisp source file for each class

Additional optional inputs include:
* Specific name overrides (as a plist)
  * Example: `HTMLEncoder` would normally become
    `h-t-m-l-encoder` but this can be overridden to
    `html-encoder`
* Specific method directions
  * Use `&optional` for methods with default parameter values
  * Use `&key` for methods with default parameter values

# C# Assembly to Lisp Conversion

All names are converted to kebab-case.

If a method is static, then `dotnet:static` will be used,
or `dotnet:static-generic` as appropriate.

If a method is not static, then `dotnet:invoke` or
`monoutils:invoke-generic` will be used.

## Constants

Static, read-only or un-settable fields and properties
are converted to Lisp constants defined with `+`
(plus sign) earmuffs.

Example: 
`Microsoft.Xna.Framework.Vector2.Zero` becomes
`+zero+`.

## Preamble

Each output file will start with a common preamble:
* Comments indicating:
  * When it was generated
  * What version of the generator software was used
    (each edit to the generator should increment this)
  * When available: which version of the metadata software
    was used
  * The full name of the class this package is for

* Lisp code creating the package:
  * Switch to the `:cl-user` package
  * Define the package being created
    * This includes the exports
  * Switch to the package

* Several relevant constants will be defined:
  * The C# Type represented will be created as an exported constant
    with angle bracket earmuffs called `<type>`. 
  * The C# Type represented as a String will be created as
    an exported constant called `<type-str>`
  * The date/time when this was created will be created as an
    exported constant called `<creation>` as a String in
    ISO 8601 format per RFC 3339.
  * The version of the generator used to create this will be
    created as an exported constant called `<version>`


## Methods

A Lisp function will evaluate a method and decide what kind
it is:
* Unoverloaded
* Overloaded with identical parameters, to a point
* ...TODO...

## Methods Without Overloads

Methods without overloads and no special parameters
are translated directly into
a simple method call.

Methods without overloads with default arguments can be defined in several
ways in Common lisp:
* `&optional` arguments with defaults
* `&key` arguments with defaults
By default the `&optional` formulation will be used, but the user
can also request `&key` implementation on a per-method basis.

## Methods With Overloads

There are many possible ways to handle C# methods with overloads.
These will be broken down by case.

### Overloads With Identical Parameters, To a Point

Some methods will have multiple versions with more and more
parameters.

These methods have all the same parameter names in the same
order, up to the limit of the number of parameters.

This will be implemented as `&optional` parameters with `supplied-p`
flags for all the parameters beyond the ones identical in each
case, and the
method implementation will dispatch to the correct version with
the right number of arguments according to the first not
`supplied-p` parameter.

### Overloads with Different Parameters

TODO

# Implementation Phases

## Phase 1

This is all written in DotCL Common Lisp.

Infrastructure:
* Create the initial framework in the Lisp package
  `assembly-package-generator` in a similarly named
  `.lisp` file
* Create the initial version as an increasing integer
  starting at 1.
* Integrate this package into `packages.lisp` and the
  `.asd` file as necessary.

Invocation from command line:
* Take these parameters:
  * `--assembly-metadata` points to the s-expression
    file to use as one input
  * `--class` says which classes to process,
    delimited by semicolons. Exact string match is used
    on the class names.
    * If omitted, all classes in the assembly metadata
      will be processed.
  * `--output` points to the output directory
* Call the generator with:
  * The loaded assembly metadata
  * A CL list of strings of the classes
  * The output directory

Assembly Package Generator Capabilities:
* Conversion from PascalCase/camelCase to kebab-case
* Create the output directory, if not already there
* Check if all provided classes are available in the
  metadata, and gives an error if not and does nothing
* Builds the generated pacakges

Generator Outputs:
* The preamble as defined above
* Skip classes with generic arguments
* Only output constants (static, read-only/final, un-settable fields)
* Only output public methods with:
  * No overloads
  * No generic types
  * No default parameters
  * No special parameters (e.g., `out`, `ref`, etc.)
  * Not operator overloads
  * Not property getters/setters
  * (In other words, the simplest possible case for a method.)

Docstrings should be included with every definition, according to
the `:documentation` in the metadata. For methods, the docstrings
should also include the documentation of each parameter, including
the expected type of the parameter.

Not implemented:
* Constructors
* Field & property getters or setters
* Anything Generic